Ingredients

1 cup (100 grams) blanched almond flour
1/4 cup (32 grams) coconut flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons (84 grams) coconut oil or unsalted butter, room temperature (if your coconut oil is a little melty, put it in the fridge for about 10-20 minutes or until firmer, like softened butter. If you use slightly melted coconut oil, the dough will be greasy and the chocolate chips will be hard to incorporate.)
3/4 cup (150 grams) coconut sugar or brown sugar
6 tablespoons (98 grams) natural almond butter, room temperature1
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 large egg, room temperature
1 1/4 cups (213 grams) semi-sweet chocolate chips, divided (make sure to use paleo-friendly chocolate chips, if desired)

Directions

In a medium mixing bowl, stir together the almond flour, coconut flour, baking soda and salt. Set aside.

In a large mixing bowl with an electric hand mixer or using a stand mixer, beat together the fat and sugar at medium speed until well combined, about 1 minute. If you use coconut oil, it may not come together easily. If that's the case, use your hands to combine it and then beat another 20 seconds.

Beat in the almond butter and vanilla extract on medium speed and mix until combined. Beat in the egg on low and mix until well incorporated. Stir in the flour mixture until well combined. Then stir in 1 cup (170 grams) chocolate chips. If you used brown sugar, skip to the next step. If you used coconut sugar, place the bowl in the refrigerator for about 1 hour or until the dough is firm.

Preheat the oven to 350 °F (175 °C) and line a baking sheet with a piece of parchment paper.

Roll the dough into 8 (75-gram) balls and place the remaining 1/4 cup (43 grams) of chocolate chips on the top and on the sides of the dough balls. You can also roll them into smaller balls but then you need to adjust the baking time. Place 3" apart on the prepared baking sheet. Press the cookies down lightly with the palm of your hand.

Bake for 11-14 minutes (if using coconut sugar) or 14-17 minutes (if using brown sugar) or until the surface of the center of the cookies no longer appears wet. They'll be very soft but will continue to cook as they sit on the cookie sheet.

Let cool completely on the baking sheet. Store in an airtight container for up to 3 days.


Notes

This recipe does not work with peanut butter.

For paleo: use coconut sugar, coconut oil, and paleo chocolate.

For dairy-free: use coconut oil and dairy-free chocolate.